# RestAPI Germany city details and US based city address



Used tools and frameworks

---------------------------------------
1. Rest-Assured
2. Maven repository 
3. TestNG
4. apache-poi to extract test data from Excel files
5. Objectmapper to map response to POJO


Main features
----------------------------
1. Hybrid framework to test automation Webservices. It is data-driven framework. So, you can separate testing data in Excel sheet with predefined schema and using some keywords inside Excel sheet you can validate the returned response body, headers and cookies.
2. Supports both REST and SOAP webservices testing. 
3. All classes and methods are implemented in Java with Maven repository to include all dependencies needed. REST-Assured is used to offer a friendly DSL (Domain specific Languages) that describes a connection to an HTTP endpoint and expected results.
4. Utilizes the capabilities of TestNG such as Data provider annotation to separate test data in external file and flexible test suites configuration and management.
5. To use the framework, NO need to have any coding skills. ZERO line of code needed. Each test cases can be represented as a row or some rows (if the test case consists of some correlated steps) in the relevant Excel sheet. All you need is to know what is your scope in testing and just add the test data in the Excel sheet with the predefined schema then create the TestNG runner xml file that points to test data. For example:
The predefined schema in that format:
[Description], [URL], [Request method: GET, POST, ...], [Headers keys], [Headers values], [Body(if needed)], [Expected status code], [Assertions]
6. REST-Assured Java API is to test REST webservices and has no direct support for SOAP webservices.
7. The framework validates the returned status code, response body contains check, headers and cookies. It can validate each field data type and value. If the returned response includes object of arraylist, the framework can validate its size using the keyword ".size()"
8. Can be integrated into DevOps environment to accelerate the delivery process. 
9. Retry logic has also implemented. if case a test case get failed then systme wiil runt the failed case 3 time and based on that result will be published


## Project Structure?
This is automated "Location and City" details based APIs.Here is the folder structure 
* **src/main/java**
    * This folder contain two packages One of them have Pojo classes and other of them have Extendreport utility, Excel utility, General Verification of API's repnse and retryAnalyzer classes
* **src/test/java**
    * This folder contain a package and a class where testcases has been implemented with TestNG Framework
* **TestData**
    * As we are following DataDrivenApproch so we have excel file on project directory where all testdata mentioned.
	* Apache poi library has been used to read data from excel
	* DataProvider annotation has been used to pass test data from excel to test cases 
* **Step defination folder**
    * This folder has a file that contain all steps implementation that used in test cases.
* **reports and test-out**
    * these are runtime genereted folder which is generated by TestNG and Extendreport.
	* Execution results can be seen here
---

## What do you need?
### Java
1. Download _[Java](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/)_ using chrome also make sure that version is 8 above
  ```sh
  https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/
  ```
2. Install the JAVA and set the PATH in environment varibale
  ```
  PATH="/usr/local/java/lib/bin:${PATH}"
  export PATH;
  ```

3. Add all required dependencies in pom.xml

4. Add maven plugins to run the testng.xml file from pom.xml file


## It's time for Execution...
1. From your _cmd_, go to the project directory
2. Run the test cases using the following command
  ```sh
  mvn clean
  mvn test
  ```

 